Alright. In this video, we are going to take
a look at a integration testing a little
closer. And we're preparing to run a
patch customer and like close this
window here. What we wanna do is down
here at the bottom of the screen, is a
patch operation works a little
differently from an update, where when we
do the patch, we are only going to update
the values that are passed in. So in our
example, if we just pass in the firstname, we are gonna update the firstname
but lead the lastname alone. And that
means that when you have to go in and
implement that logic. So you can see here,
I've got my implementation here. And we
go out we lookup by id, and then, we got
a couple of "if" statements here. So not
prettiest code in the world. But we do
have to check each properties. See if
it's not null. If the client has set
a value there and then we're gonna accept
that. And now, there's several different
ways to implement patch logic. So this is
just one way of doing that. But what I
wanna do is set up a test for that.
In doing this with mocks, it could get a
little bit ugly. I wanted to do it with
the database. I thought it'd be a
good opportunity to show you the data
JPA slice. So here, I've set up an
integration test. I've named a
CustomerServiceImplIT for
integration test because this is gonna
be bringing up the Spring Context, and
we have the annotation @RunWith(SpringRunner.class)
and then a @DataJpaTest.
Now this brings up a small subset of the
Spring Context, where it only brings up
the repositories. So the CustomerService
doesn't get created. The controllers
don't get created. So it just brings up
that data layer and we can set that up.
And I also wanted to set up some test
data for us to use in the testing. So I'm
getting a handle on the Bootstrap class.
I'm creating a new bootstrap class
so we have that same class that loads up
the data for us, and I'm gonna pass in
the repository instance of it. And then,
ask it to run so that you can see on
line 44 to 46 there is where I'm running
that Bootstrap class. I get an object and
then I run it. And that actually creates
the data. Now Spring Boot, by default, is
gonna run all these in transactions.
And the problem that I had when I'm
setting this up is the database gets
cleared every time. So every time we run
that remember the now of the way that
JUnit works. The setUp method is gonna
run before each test method. Now what
was happening was, I had to go out and
get the id values. And remember, the id is
gonna be off a database index. So we
insert them and we'll get one and two
and then that rolls back. But that index
doesn't change. That counter doesn't
change inside the database. So the next
time we insert data into that auto
populating id, it's going to be three and
four. So that's gonna increment with
each test run. So you can see there on
line 100, I have an implementation of a
get id. It's pretty simple logic.
It's gonna go out do a find all, get
a list of it, and just return back the
first one it finds, which is fine for our
test. Let me show you the test that
we set up here. So I have a patch
CustomerUpdatedFirstName and we go
through we set the firstname to updated
name. And then, we go through and also
using a couple new things I don't think
I've shown in the class before. We're
using a assertThat and not. So
this was introduced not too long ago
in the JUnit community. I say about
a year ago, that assertThat was
introduced. Some people prefer to use it.
I'll go back and forth depending on the
use case that I have here. So a nice
little introduction to using that. And
then, we also have to do just the lastname.
So in my test, I'm making sure that
the name, whether it's the firstname
that I'm updating or the lastname that
I'm updating, I wanna make sure
that that name value of the other one
does not get touched but it's still
there so that's what my tests are
verifying. So now, let's go ahead and run
all these together. You know I wanna
show you some of the output on this.
You can see that the test does take
a little bit longer to run, as far as
starting up. And you can see here it
takes almost half a second to start up
that first time because it's initializing
the Spring Context. Now the
second test runs a lot faster because
the Spring Context is already up and
running. So we can see it. Now we have a
lot more data here. We can see how
Hibernate is running each time. So we are
logging the output of Hibernate. And for
each test, let's take a look at update
lastname. So you can see, that's our
Bootstrap running there and that's going
through. And we can see that I'm
verifying that I have some output there
as far as the Customer is getting loaded.
And when I look at the other test, we can
see that again the Hibernate statements
are being run. But again, you can see how
how these tests are running a lot faster.
So once you bring up that Spring Context,
your test will run a lot quicker. But
I have been giving a lot of strong
preference using unit tests throughout
the course because I do like unit tests
they do run a lot faster. Here, we are
bringing up a small part of the Spring
Context. But you can see how much
longer it takes to run that test. So
that test takes almost a half a second
just to start and if you have a lot of
test classes like this that's gonna
really drag down the performance of your
overall test suite if you're running a
large testing and using integration
tests where you could actually be using
unit tests. So again, I just wanna
reiterate you do have several testing
options here within Spring Boot. The @DataJpaTest is a real nice annotation to
use. It brings up a smaller set of the
Spring Boot Context, where it essentially
sets up the data layer. So you're getting
an in-memory database through H2. You are
getting the Spring Data Repository cells
do become Spring Manage components. But
everything outside of that is not
brought into the context. So you do have
to set up your services manually your
controllers, if you're using a controller.
At any other Spring Bean, you would need
to set that up manually because it's not
gonna get loaded into the Spring
Context. You can see here, in the @Before
method, that's exactly what I'm doing. In
the next video, we're gonna take a
look at implementing the front end of
this for the patch controller action.